#  BloodNet: An attention-based deep network for accurate, efficient, and costless bloodstain time since deposition inference
****
## The time since deposition (TSD) of a bloodstain, i.e., the time of a bloodstain formation is an essential piece of biological evidence in crime scene investigation. Diverse automatic methods have been proposed for TSD estimation, typically from a microscopic view, e.g., by leveraging the Raman spectroscopy technology. The practical usage of these existing microscopic methods is limited, as their performance strongly relies on high-end instrumentation and/or rigorous laboratory conditions. This paper presents a practically applicable deep learning-based method (i.e., BloodNet) for efficient, accurate, and costless TSD inference from a macroscopic view, i.e., by using easily accessible bloodstain photos. To this end, we established a benchmark database containing around 50,000 photos of bloodstains with varying TSDs. Capitalizing on such a large-scale database, our BloodNet adopted attention mechanisms to learn from relatively high-resolution input images the localized fine-grained feature representations that are highly discriminative between different TSD periods. Our BloodNet led to high TSD inference accuracies on both the internal validation and external test datasets, with the averaged area under the receiver-operating characteristic curve (AUC) of 99.32% and 91.04%, respectively, significantly outperforming the state-of-the-art methods in the literature. Also, the visual analysis of the learned deep networks based on the Smooth Grad-CAM++ tool demonstrated that our BloodNet can stably capture the unique local patterns of bloodstains with specific TSDs, suggesting the efficacy of the utilized attention mechanism in learning fine-grained representations for TSD inference. 
